[MUSIC]
I have given you the definition
of the vertex cover problem.
I showed you the input.
I showed you the output.
That defines the problem.
Now, we are going to see in more depth
the mathematical formulation for
the problem as an integer program.
An integer program has three parts to it,
variables, constraints, and an objective.
Let us start with the variables for
mothering the vertex cover.
A vertex cover is a subset for
all the vertices in the graph.
How do we model?
How do we represent a vertex cover?
Well how do we represent the subset
of vertices of the graph?
For each vertex of the graph,
we need to know whether or
not the vertex is in the subset.
Two possibilities.
So, let us define one variable for
each vertex of the graph.
Vertex a gives us variable x sub a.
That takes on two possible values, 0 or 1,
depending on whether
vertex a is in the subset.
Xa equals 1 means vertex
Xa is in the cover.
Xa equals 0 means vertex
Xa is not in the cover.
We do this for every vertex in the graph.
N vertices, this gives us n variables,
two possibilities for each variable.
This gives us 2 to the n possible
assignments of our variables.
So that's our variable set.
Next, the constraints.
A vertex cover must cover
every edge in the graph.
How do we capture that mathematically
with an algebraic expression?
Let us consider one of these edges,
say edge ab.
We have two variables, Xa, Xb.
Each of them takes on two possible values,
so we have four possibilities.
Four possibilities, 0 0, 1 0, 01, 1 1.
In the first case 0 0, neither a nor
b are in the cover and
so the edge is not covered.
In the other three cases,
the edge is covered.
Now what we need is an idea.
The idea is let us compute
the sum x sub a plus x sub b.
And observe in these four
possibilities what do we have?
0 plus 0 equals 0.
In French we say [FOREIGN],
1 + 0, is 1.
0 + 1 is 1.
1 + 1 is 2.
So the four possibilities for
the sum are 0, 1, 1, 2.
And we want to express the fact that
the bottom three are a cover of the edge.
The first one is not valid.
Very simple, x sub a plus x sub
b is greater than or equal to 1.
This expresses the fact that our
vertices cover the edge a, b.
Going from one edge to an entire graph,
we write one constraint for
each graph edge and so
we have the whole set
of constraints of linear
inequalities that together
express the fact that the subset
of the vertices is a vertex cover.
Finally, we want the vertex
cover that has minimum weight.
How do we write this?
We write this using an objective.
The objective is to minimize
X sub a times one because
if A isn't a cover, since A has weight 1,
it contributes 1 to the cost.
Plus, x sub times 4, if b is in the cover,
it contributes 4 to the cost.
Plus 4xc+2xd+9xe+4xf+3xg.
That's it.
That's our objective.
What is the relation to recap?
If you look at the green vertices A,
C, D, F,
G, observing the graph you can
see that every edge is covered.
It's a vertex cover.
Summing their weights,
you can see that the value is 14.
Corresponding to that,
there's an assignment on the variables xa,
xc, xd, xf, xg, are all equal to 1, and
the other variables are equal to 0.
You can verify that all
the inequalities are satisfied
because all edges are covered, and
that the value of the objective is 14.
In general, for a general graph,
you have one variable per vertex.
You have the constraint that for every
vertex in your graph, every vertex u,
variable Xu must be equal to 0 or
equal to 1.
And for every edge of the graph, you have
the constraint that if the edge is UV,
Xu plus XV has to be
greater than the record 1.
Given these constraints, your objective
is to minimize the sum over every
vertex u in the graph
of w sub u times x u.
This is an integer program for
vertex cover.
There's a one to one correspondence
between vertex covers and
assignments of the variables that
satisfy all the constraints.
And the value of the vortex
cover is the objective value
of the corresponding assignment.
Thus I have given you an integer
program that is a formulation for
the vertex cover problem.
Now we are going to see a linear
program in relaxation for vertex cover.